if you were a best man who has been
asked to give a speech at a wedding
first off congratulations for being
asked to be best man in the first place
that's huge but second I want to
congratulate you for doing something
that 90 of best men don't do and that is
research and planning and getting ready
to deliver a great speech or maybe
you're a groomsman and you have the
opportunity to give a speech and this
video caught your attention whatever
brought you here I want to thank you for
watching this video my name is Wade
Patterson I'm passionate about impactful
communication and becoming a better
communicator and if that is something
you are interested in doing I would
encourage you to subscribe to my channel
it is my goal to provide a lot of video
content that is going to help you be a
better public speaker and a better
Communicator in general I'm not gonna
lie there is a lot of pressure on the
best man speech everyone is waiting at
the the reception to see what are the
speeches going to be like and the best
man often people are expecting that to
be funny and that brings me to my first
tip my first tip for delivering a killer
best man speech is to deliver humor
early in many of my videos I talk about
the power of using humor in a speech it
does two things it relaxes your audience
as soon as you make the audience laugh
they can sit back in their chairs and
they know it's going to be an enjoyable
speech you already have them laughing in
the first few seconds but the bigger
element is that it relaxes you as the
speaker if you hear the audience
laughing and you're able to establish
that humor early in the speech now you
have the confidence to continue the rest
of your speech knowing that you're
building on that momentum and it's going
to be a fantastic speech while humor is
incredibly important you also want to
stress break that balance between
humorous things and nice things that
you're saying about the groom if it's
all just humor and especially if those
jokes are coming at the groom's behalf
that might not go over so well I've been
to some weddings where yes they're funny
speeches joke after joke but the
audience is left with a feeling of wow
that person really didn't say that many
nice things about whoever it is that
they're speaking about and I think that
the best speeches definitely leverage
that humor but balance humor with the
nice things as well a couple more small
tips on the side of humor
self-deprecating stories or jokes always
work the best rather than you making fun
of the groom throw yourself under the
bus make the groom look like the hero
and allow everyone to laugh at yourself
when somebody is able to give a speech
each and use self-deprecating humor the
audience they they appreciate it they
laugh even harder because they empathize
with you being in that situation and
often they can see themselves in that
situation but the fact that you were
brave enough to tell the joke to make
fun of yourself that's going to get a
lot of laughter and one final thought on
humor personal stories often work better
than canned jokes or things that you
found on the internet that are funny it
is really hard to take a formal joke and
make it your own and make it very funny
I'm not saying it's not possible but if
you have personal stories that are funny
definitely use those for the best man
speech the next tip I have for
delivering an amazing best man speech is
to have some sort of speech structure
there are many different structures that
speeches can have but I'm going to give
you two examples of what those could
look like and the first example are
speeches that come full circle so
hypothetically Let's Pretend your friend
the groom is somebody who is incredibly
reliable you're opening to the speech
could be a sentence or a few sentences
that illustrate that that explain that
this person Brad will call him Brad is
one of your best friends and one of the
traits you admire so much about Brad is
his reliability from there you can tell
a few stories or give examples that kind
of hang on the theme of reliability so
these speeches can be humorous they can
get the audience's attention but the
underlying theme can continue to be
reliability throughout the speech then
as you go on to say a few words about
the person that Brad is marrying perhaps
you can still weave reliability into
that but the key with the full circle
speech no matter how many times
throughout the body of the speech you
touch on reliability even if you only do
it once or twice the idea is that you
conclude with a very similar sentence to
how you opened the speech with the power
of a full circle structured speech is
that the audience it's like this aha
moment at the end they think wow all of
this tied together this speaker is
masterful they brought this idea
together they took us on a journey
throughout the speech and then they tied
it up very nicely bringing it back to
the original point which was reliability
the second example of an interesting
speech structure is the idea of branches
this works very well if you have three
maybe periods of time that you really
knew the person through and you have
stories to go along with each of those
again using Brad this hypothetical Brad
as an example if you knew Brad from your
high school days and that friendship
continued throughout into your adult
life you could break the speech up into
three periods and you could talk about
how Brad has been a consistent friend
ever since or through all of those three
times so you could talk about high
school that could be the first period of
time the second period could be the
college days of knowing Brad and then
the final can be life sense knowing Brad
in your 20s perhaps and if you have
stories quick little stories for each of
these time periods and you can tie those
in and they show maybe they're humorous
because humor is an important part of a
best man speech but they also show
positive characteristics that never
changed about Brad and that's what
you're bringing it back to is that Brad
is this consistent friend who has been
amazing no matter if it was high school
college or into our adult lives I've
seen several speeches that Branch off
into three or maybe five categories and
these speeches are incredibly effective
especially when you have multiple short
stories about that particular person
regardless of the structure of speech
that you use you should set aside some
time in the speech toward the end to
talk about the person that
the groom or whoever it is that you're
best man for is marrying you want to
talk about that person and if for the
groom we use the example of 50 should be
humorous 50 should be nice things I
would suggest we change it to 75 nice
things at least and 25 maybe some jokes
for the person that they are marrying
and the reason for this is you don't
want to roast that person it's a good
opportunity your your speech is focused
on Brad or whoever the groom is that
you're best man for and whoever that
person is marrying you want to say nice
things you want it to be very welcoming
and that is going to be a short part of
the speech a big question for anyone
giving a speech is how long should this
speech be my suggestion and I'm a big
fan of the Toastmasters program and
those of you who know Toastmasters will
be familiar with this timing and that is
five to seven minutes that is an ideal
stretch of time for any speech anything
longer than seven minutes it feels like
the speech is going too long and people
are wondering when it's gonna end
anything short of five minutes people
are left wanting a little bit more they
think oh that could have been a little
bit longer five to seven minutes is a
very good strategy depending how long
your speech is I would say keep about 20
percent of the time minimum to talk
about the person your friend is marrying
one of my most important pieces of
advice and for you who is watching you
probably don't need to know this because
you're already doing research you're
already thinking one step ahead of the
majority of best men who will never do
any research and probably wing it the
advice I can give is this do not wing it
don't just don't do it write your speech
out if that's how your process works and
practice practice it as much as possible
I completely understand if you need to
use notes but I would challenge you to
reference those notes as little as
possible as you're giving the speech do
your best to make eye contact with the
audience and if you want that speech
written down somewhere where you can go
and reference certain points so that you
don't lose your place that's
understandable but bonus points if
you're able to deliver an entire speech
without reading off of the notes in my
opinion the only way to do that and do
that effectively is through practicing I
hope this quick video on how to deliver
a best man speech was helpful for you
let me know in the comments was it
helpful if it was hit the like button
please subscribe to my channel and turn
on notifications and if you have other
questions ask me ask me in the comment
section I really do my best to respond
to as many comments as possible and it
makes my day when I know people are
watching my videos and getting value
from them thanks so much for watching
this video and I'll catch you on the
next one thank you so much for watching
this video if you were looking for a
little bit of coaching help with your
next speech I am providing one-on-one
evaluations my contact email is in the
video description reach out to me and
let's discuss what that could look like